# Podman Provider

Deploy containers and associated configuration using Podman's native management API.

Note: Neither the native Podman API nor the original Docker API that it is closely modeled on places much emphasis on round-trip stability of the resources that these APIs configure. As a result, this Terraform provider's support for resource imports and state reconciliation is limited.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "podman" {
  host_key_algorithms = ["ssh-ed25519", "ssh-rsa"]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `container_host` (String) Default container host URL. Must be specified if resources do not specify a container_host attribute.
- `host_key_algorithms` (List of String) An ordered list of public key type names (of the kind found in the second field of an entry in your `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file) to request from remote SSH servers. If this is not specified then the default sequence of algorithms built in to the Go `crypto/ssh` library will be used.

  The first key type that the server supports will be used for SSH host key checks and any other host key types will be ignored. This is less secure than OpenSSH, which checks all of a remote host's known keys, but this deficiency is due to what appears to be a limitation in the API of Go's `crypto/ssh` module.

  The `crypto/ssh` module seems to start negotiations by requesting host keys based on NIST elliptic curves by default, so you might want to specify `["ssh-ed25519"]` here to force the use of the less-dubious Ed25519 algorithm instead.


