---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "podman_image Resource - terraform-provider-podman"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Podman Image resource
---

# podman_image (Resource)

Podman Image resource

## Example Usage

```terraform
locals {
  container_host = "ssh://user@localhost/run/podman/podman.sock#pubkey=ssh-ed25519+AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIEahKBGUmHUA4MZgJ3pi4vZMfgB1KXbh33WExUh688Jh"
}

resource "podman_image" "postgres_17" {
  container_host = local.container_host
  preserve       = true
  reference      = "docker.io/library/postgres:17.5@sha256:6efd0df010dc3cb40d5e33e3ef84acecc5e73161bd3df06029ee8698e5e12c60"
  policy         = "missing"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `reference` (String) Reference of the image to pull. Stable image tags (which the image publisher promises not to change) should be used here, and the use of image digests is strongly recommended when pulling from registries that you do not control, in order to protect against supply chain attacks.

### Optional

> **NOTE**: [Write-only arguments](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments) are supported in Terraform 1.11 and later.

- `auth` (Attributes, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) Optional credentials to use when pulling from this image's repository (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--auth))
- `container_host` (String) URL of the container host where this resource resides
- `policy` (String) The circumstances under which this image should be pulled. Options are: "always" (default), "missing", "newer", "never".
- `preserve` (Boolean) When true, do not delete the underlying image on the Podman host after this resource is deleted by Terraform. The storage taken up by this image will need to be released manually using e.g. the Podman CLI at a later time, but this behavior may be useful when you are doing some local testing and don't want to run into Docker Hub's stringent free tier rate limits.

  Note that this behavior also applies when this resource is deleted and recreated due to a new image tag being pulled. The image corresponding to the old tag will be preserved in this situation.
- `pull_number` (Number) Increment this number to force an immediate pull of this container, provided that this image resource's `policy` allows it.

   This feature might be useful for pulling a rapidly-changing `latest` tag corresponding to a CI build artifact, but in general it is recommended that you reference images by stable tag and/or digest instead if possible.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Image ID calculated by the container runtime

<a id="nestedatt--auth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `auth`

Required:

- `password` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments))
- `username` (String, Sensitive, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments))
